# Smart-Agriculture-Alert-System
This project is designed with the main component as ATmega168 and three breadboards. The main feature of the whole system is to detect temperature and brightness using a thermistor and a photoresistor respectively. When these two values go above or below a threshold, a trigger is alerted via slack notifications and the LEDs and a buzzer on the breadboard are activated based on the severity of the situation. To get this whole system working, the ATmega168 samples the sensor values using ADC and these values are used to decide whether it safe, unsafe or highly unsafe temperature and brightness and activate the actuators accordingly. The buzzer sounds differently for different levels of severity which was made possible by PWM. The sensor values are also sent back to the computer using USART which is then used to trigger the slack notifications. This whole system can be used as a prototype for an agricultural module, where plants are grown and if the temperature and sunlight values go dangerously above or below a certain threshold for the plants, a supervisor can be alerted via mobile notifications and also via LEDs and buzzer alarms.

The circuit must be kept in the cabin where we need to monitor the light and temperature values. After setting up the circuit based on the schematic shown, user must make sure that the light falls appropriately on the sensor.
The user must install the slack app on their smart phone device and be join the slack channel used for sending the notifications.
After following these steps, the user must get the notification alerts on their phone and also be able to monitor temperature and light based on light and buzzer pattern.
